Create v9+ documentation for quick start (#4310)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Reference/Searching/Examine/Quick-Start/index.md

## Performing a search

:::note

> In the coming examples the Umbraco Starter Kit has been used, as it provides some example content that can be searched. Some of the examples below therefore may require 'the setting up of templates, etc' if you are following the guide on your own existing site.

Reviewer: Would be nice with a link to the starter kit docs here, since the installation instructions have (rightfully) been removed. Maybe "In the coming examples the [Umbraco Starter Kit](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/starter-kits/the-starter-kit/) has been used, ..."

> In the coming examples the Umbraco Starter Kit has been used, as it provides some example content that can be searched. Some of the examples below therefore may require 'the setting up of templates, etc' if you are following the guide on your own existing site.

Reviewer: Would be nice with a link to the starter kit docs here, since the installation instructions have (rightfully) been removed. 

```suggestion
In the coming examples the [Umbraco Starter Kit](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/starter-kits/the-starter-kit/) has been used, as it provides some example content that can be searched. Some of the examples below therefore may require 'the setting up of templates, etc' if you are following the guide on your own existing site.
```

> In the coming examples the [Umbraco Starter Kit](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/starter-kits/the-starter-kit/) has been used, as it provides some example content that can be searched. Some of the examples below therefore may require 'the setting up of templates, etc' if you are following the guide on your own existing site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the coming examples, the [Umbraco Starter Kit](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/starter-kits/the-starter-kit/) has been used, as it provides some example content that can be searched. Therefore, some of the examples below may require 'the setting up of templates, etc' if you follow the guide on your existing site.
```

:::

> The starter kit comes with some Templates, Document Types and content nodes created already. We will use some of these to set up a basic search system. This is a 'Quick Start' guide, as much more complex searches are possible with Examine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The starter kit comes with some Templates, Document Types, and content nodes created already. We will use some of these to set up a basic search system. This is a 'Quick Start' guide, as many more complex searches are possible with Examine.
```

Reviewer 2: We use an Oxford Comma before the conjunction (typically 'and'/'or') in a list of three or more items.

-->
<div>
    <form action="@Model.Url()" method="get">
        <input type="text" placeholder="Search" name="query"/>
        <button>Search</button>
    </form>
</div>
<div class="employee-grid">
...
```
This will create a basic input field at the top of the page and make it post to the same people page when submitted along with the search term.

> ### Using route hijacking

Reviewer: I think "Handling the search request" would be a better headline here - route hijacking is an implementation detail.

> ### Using route hijacking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Handling the search request
```

Now that we can post to the people view, we want a bit more control, we probably want a custom ViewModel, with all the search results, when people try to search for something!
We will use route hijacking by creating a render controller, for more information about route hijacking and render controllers, you can read our documentation: https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/reference/routing/custom-controllers/

> Lets start by creating a PeopleController, and letting it derive from `RenderController`, and then adding an Index method.

Reviewer: "Let us" or "Let's", not "Lets"

> Lets start by creating a PeopleController, and letting it derive from `RenderController`, and then adding an Index method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us start by creating a PeopleController, and letting it derive from `RenderController`, and then adding an Index method.
```

> :::note Its important to name our Controller by the convention `NameOfViewController` so in our case our view is named People, so we call it PeopleController

Reviewer: Suggest new wording - something in the lines of: 

The best practice for POST requests is to encapsulate the request handling in a controller. To do this we will leverage the concept of [route hijacking](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/reference/routing/custom-controllers/). 

Lets start by creating a `PeopleController` that derives from `RenderController` and add an `Index` method. 

:::note 
It is important to name our controller by the convention `_NameOfViewController_`. In our case the view is named People, so the controller is named `PeopleController`.
:::

> Now that we can post to the people view, we want a bit more control, we probably want a custom ViewModel, with all the search results, when people try to search for something!
> We will use route hijacking by creating a render controller, for more information about route hijacking and render controllers, you can read our documentation: https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/reference/routing/custom-controllers/
> 
> Lets start by creating a PeopleController, and letting it derive from `RenderController`, and then adding an Index method.
> :::note Its important to name our Controller by the convention `NameOfViewController` so in our case our view is named People, so we call it PeopleController

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best practice for POST requests is to encapsulate the request handling in a controller. To do this we will leverage the concept of [route hijacking](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/reference/routing/custom-controllers/). 

Lets start by creating a `PeopleController` that derives from `RenderController` and add an `Index` method. 

:::note 
It is important to name our controller by the convention `_NameOfViewController_`. In our case the view is named People, so the controller is named `PeopleController`.
:::
```

```csharp

> using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ViewEngines;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Web;
> using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Controllers;

Reviewer: For this sample to work on V9 you need two more namespaces:

```suggestion
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ViewEngines;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Web;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Controllers;
```

> 

Reviewer: Missing namespace for this controller. I suggest `namespace MyStarterKitSite.Controllers;`

> 

Reviewer: Missing namespace for this controller.
```suggestion
namespace MyStarterKitSite.Controllers;
```

public class PeopleController : RenderController
{
    public PeopleController(
    ILogger<RenderController> logger,
    ICompositeViewEngine compositeViewEngine,
    IUmbracoContextAccessor umbracoContextAccessor)
    : base(
        logger,
        compositeViewEngine,
        umbracoContextAccessor)
    {
    }

    public override IActionResult Index()
    {
        return CurrentTemplate(CurrentPage);
    }
}
```

Now we have created our controller, and your code will now do the exact same thing as before you created the Controller!

> Lets change that and start adding logic to the index method.

Reviewer: This is redundant text, suggest removing it entirely.

> Now we have created our controller, and your code will now do the exact same thing as before you created the Controller!
> Lets change that and start adding logic to the index method.

Reviewer: This is redundant text, suggest removing it entirely.

```suggestion
```

### Adding a Service that handles our search logic

> To search anything from our controller, we first need to create a service we can use, that handles the actual search logic, lets create an interface first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To search anything from our controller, we first need to create a service that handles the actual search logic. We'll start by create an interface for our service.
```

```csharp

> using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;

Reviewer: Needs more namespaces to work for V9
```suggestion
using System.Collections.Generic;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;
```

> 

Reviewer: Lacking a namespace.

```suggestion
namespace MyStarterKitSite.Services;
```

public interface ISearchService
{
    IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query);
}

```

> So this method can take in a query string, and then return content that matches!
> Lets create our service that uses this interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now create a default implementation of the service interface.

```

```csharp
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.UI.Services;

public class SearchService : ISearchService
{
    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query) => throw new NotImplementedException();
}
```

> :::note Remember to register this service in your Startup.cs file!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

And finally register the service in `Startup`.

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    // ... (removed for abbreviation)
    services.AddTransient<ISearchService, SearchService>();
}
```

```

### Examine Search Index

> To perform the search we will first need to get a reference to the particular Examine index that we want to search. Then we will use this index to access it's corresponding `Searcher`. We use the `Searcher` to construct the query logic to execute and search the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform the search we will first need to get a reference to the particular Examine index that we want to search. Then we will use this index to access its corresponding `ISearcher`. We use the `ISearcher` to construct the query logic to execute and search the index.
```

-->
<div>
    <form action="@Model.Url()" method="get">
        <input type="text" placeholder="Search" name="query"/>
        <button>Search</button>
    </form>
</div>
<div class="employee-grid">
...
```
This will create a basic input field at the top of the page and make it post to the same people page when submitted along with the search term.
### Handling the search request

The best practice for POST requests is to encapsulate the request handling in a controller. To do this we will leverage the concept of [route hijacking](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/reference/routing/custom-controllers/).

> Lets start by creating a `PeopleController` that derives from `RenderController` and add an `Index` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start by creating a `PeopleController` that derives from `RenderController` and add an `Index` method.
```

:::note

> It is important to name our controller by the convention `_NameOfViewController_`. In our case the view is named People, so the controller is named `PeopleController`.

Reviewer: Oops, formatting should be outside of the code block 🙈 

```suggestion
It is important to name our controller by the convention _`NameOfViewController`_. In our case the view is named People, so the controller is named `PeopleController`.
```

:::
```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ViewEngines;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Web;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Controllers;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Controllers;

public class PeopleController : RenderController
{
    public PeopleController(
    ILogger<RenderController> logger,
    ICompositeViewEngine compositeViewEngine,
    IUmbracoContextAccessor umbracoContextAccessor)
    : base(
        logger,
        compositeViewEngine,
        umbracoContextAccessor)
    {
    }

    public override IActionResult Index()
    {
        return CurrentTemplate(CurrentPage);
    }
}
```

### Adding a Service that handles our search logic

> To search anything from our controller, we first need to create a service that handles the actual search logic. We'll start by create an interface for our service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To search anything from our controller, we first need to create a service that handles the actual search logic. We'll start by creating an interface for our service.
```

([You can create your own indexes too](../indexing)) if you need to analyse text in a different language for example.

> You use a convenient service named the `IExamineManager` to retrieve first the Index by its 'alias' and then use the Index property so we can use the Searcher.
> Lets start by dependency injection this into our Service!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service `IExamineManager` is used to retrieve an Examine index by its 'alias', so we need to inject that service into our `SearchService`.
```

```csharp

> private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;
> 
> public SearchService(IExamineManager examineManager)
> {
>     _examineManager = examineManager;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using System.Collections.Generic;
using Examine;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Services;

public class SearchServices : ISearchService
{
    private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;

    public SearchServices(IExamineManager examineManager)
    {
        _examineManager = examineManager;
    }

    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query) => throw new NotImplementedException();
}
```

```
### Creating the Search Query

> With this in mind we begin to update the `SearchContentNames` method with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `IExamineManager` injected in our `SearchService`, we can implement the `SearchContentNames` method. We do this using the `Searcher` on the Examine index. 
```

```csharp
IEnumerable<string> ids = Array.Empty<string>();
if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(query) && _examineManager.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out IIndex? index))
{

>     ids = index.Searcher.CreateQuery("content").NodeTypeAlias("person").And().Field("nodeName", query).Execute()
>         .Select(x => x.Id);

Reviewer: It's probably easier to read and understand if we split the query into multiple lines here.

```suggestion
    ids = index
        .Searcher
        .CreateQuery("content")
        .NodeTypeAlias("person")
        .And()
        .Field("nodeName", query)
        .Execute()
        .Select(x => x.Id);
```

}
```

> At this point we have chosen to use the External index and it's searcher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::tip
We reference the External index by it's alias "ExternalIndex". Umbraco has a set of 'Constants' that refer to the indexes that can be more convenient to use `Constants.UmbracoIndexes`. So, in the example here we could have used `Constants.UmbracoIndexes.ExternalIndexName` instead of "ExternalIndex".
:::

The `Searcher` has a CreateQuery method, where you can choose to search content, media or members eg:
```csharp
Searcher.CreateQuery("content")
```

From here you can see how we can chain together the logic to perform the search. In the example we are searching all `content` using the `person` Document Type, where the `nodeName` is equal to the search term that was typed in the input bar.

```csharp
Searcher.CreateQuery("content").NodeTypeAlias("person").And().Field("nodeName", searchTerm)
```

> We are calling `.Execute()` at the end of the query logic will trigger the search and return a set of matching search results that we can loop through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling `.Execute()` at the end of the query logic triggers the search and returns a set of matching search results that we can loop through.
```

> We are calling `.Execute()` at the end of the query logic will trigger the search and return a set of matching search results that we can loop through.
> We can then select the ids.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling `.Execute()` at the end of the query logic triggers the search and returns a set of matching search results, which we can loop through to get the IDs of the resulting content items.
```

> ## Using the umbraco helper to get content
> We want to use the UmbracoHelper, so we can use the id to get the actual content.
> Lets inject the umbraco helper into our service!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting the content
We want to retrieve the actual content from the IDs. For that we need the `UmbracoHelper`, so let's go ahead and inject that into our `SearchService`.
```

```csharp
private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;
private readonly UmbracoHelper _umbracoHelper;

public SearchService(IExamineManager examineManager, UmbracoHelper umbracoHelper)
{
    _examineManager = examineManager;
    _umbracoHelper = umbracoHelper;
}
```

The final method looks like this:
```csharp
public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query)
{
    IEnumerable<string> ids = Array.Empty<string>();
    if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(query) && _examineManager.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out IIndex? index))
    {
        ids = index.Searcher.CreateQuery("content").NodeTypeAlias("person").And().Field("nodeName", query).Execute()
            .Select(x => x.Id);
    }

    foreach (var id in ids)
    {
        yield return _umbracoHelper.Content(id);
    }
}
```

> After getting the ids from our search, we then loop through the list, and return the content.

Reviewer: _Suggest inserting the entire final `SearchService` class here instead; something like this:_

The final `SearchService` implementation looks like this.

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Examine;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common;
using Umbraco.Extensions;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Services;

public class SearchService : ISearchService
{
    private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;
    private readonly UmbracoHelper _umbracoHelper;
    
    public SearchService(IExamineManager examineManager, UmbracoHelper umbracoHelper)
    {
        _examineManager = examineManager;
        _umbracoHelper = umbracoHelper;
    }

    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query)
    {
        IEnumerable<string> ids = Array.Empty<string>();
        if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(query) && _examineManager.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out IIndex? index))
        {
            ids = index
                .Searcher
                .CreateQuery("content")
                .NodeTypeAlias("person")
                .And()
                .Field("nodeName", query)
                .Execute()
                .Select(x => x.Id);
        }
        
        foreach (var id in ids)
        {
            yield return _umbracoHelper.Content(id);
        }
    }
}
```

# Creating a custom viewmodel

> We will now need a custom view model, so that we can pass it to the view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will now need a custom view model, so that we can pass our search results to the view.
```

```csharp

> using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;

Reviewer: For V9 a few additional namespaces are required.

```suggestion
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;
```

> namespace Umbraco.Cms.Web.UI.Models;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
namespace MyStarterKitSite.Models;
```

> public class SearchViewModel : PublishedContentWrapped

Reviewer: Perhaps explain why it's necessary to use `PublishedContentWrapped` as base class for the view model?

{

>     public SearchViewModel(IPublishedContent content, IPublishedValueFallback publishedValueFallback) : base(content, publishedValueFallback)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public SearchViewModel(IPublishedContent content, IPublishedValueFallback publishedValueFallback) 
        : base(content, publishedValueFallback)
```

    {
    }

    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchResults { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<IPublishedContent>();
    public bool HasSearched { get; set; }
}
```

## Using the service and view model in the controller

> Now that we've created our service that handles the actual search logic and ViewModel, lets look at using it in the controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've created our service to handle the actual search logic, and our view model to pass the search results to the view, lets look at using them in the controller.
```

We will want to update the `Index()` method to get out the queryString from the request, then create a viewmodel and populate the `SearchResults` property by using our service

> ```csharp
> public override IActionResult Index()
> {
>     // Get the queryString from the request
>     string queryString = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext?.Request.Query["query"] ?? string.Empty;
>     // Create the viewModel and pass it to the view
>     SearchViewModel viewModel = new(CurrentPage!, new PublishedValueFallback(_serviceContext, _variationContextAccessor))
>     {
>         SearchResults = _searchService.SearchContentNames(queryString),
>         HasSearched = !string.IsNullOrEmpty(queryString),
>     };
> 
>     return CurrentTemplate(viewModel);
> }
> ```

Reviewer: This code sample does not work on its own - it references services that aren't available from the code samples before. Suggest replacing it with the following (including required namespaces for V9).

```suggestion
```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ViewEngines;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using MyStarterKitSite.Models;
using MyStarterKitSite.Services;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Web;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Controllers;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Controllers;

public class PeopleController : RenderController
{
    private readonly IPublishedValueFallback _publishedValueFallback;
    private readonly ISearchService _searchService;
    
    public PeopleController(
        ILogger<RenderController> logger,
        ICompositeViewEngine compositeViewEngine,
        IUmbracoContextAccessor umbracoContextAccessor, 
        IPublishedValueFallback publishedValueFallback, 
        ISearchService searchService)
        : base(logger,
            compositeViewEngine,
            umbracoContextAccessor)
    {
        _publishedValueFallback = publishedValueFallback;
        _searchService = searchService;
    }

    public override IActionResult Index()
    {
        // Get the queryString from the request
        string queryString = HttpContext.Request.Query["query"];
        
        // Create the view model and pass it to the view
        SearchViewModel viewModel = new(CurrentPage!, _publishedValueFallback)
        {
            SearchResults = _searchService.SearchContentNames(queryString),
            HasSearched = !string.IsNullOrEmpty(queryString),
        };

        return CurrentTemplate(viewModel);
    }
}
```
```

## Updating the view to use the viewmodel

> The final thing we need to do is update the view to use our brand new ViewModel, we can do so by changing the `@inherits` to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final thing we need to do is update the view to use our new view model. We do that by changing the `@inherits` line in the view.
```

```csharp

> @inherits Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Views.UmbracoViewPage<Umbraco.Cms.Web.UI.Models.SearchViewModel>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@inherits Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Views.UmbracoViewPage<MyStarterKitSite.Models.SearchViewModel>
```

```

> Lets now use the ViewModel to display the search results, directly under the form we created earlier, add this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets now use the view model to display the search results. We'll place them directly under the form we created earlier.
```

```csharp
<div>
    @if (Model.SearchResults.Any())
    {
        <ul>
            @foreach (var content in Model.SearchResults)
            {
                <li>
                    <a href="@content.Url()">@content.Name</a>
                </li>
            }
        </ul>
    }
    else if(Model.HasSearched)
    {
        <p>No results found</p>
    }
</div>
```

> If the SearchResults have any, display all of them, if it does not, and we have used the search function, display `No results found`

Reviewer: I think this line is redundant with the sample code in mind.

```suggestion
```

        .CreateQuery("content")
        .NodeTypeAlias("person")
        .And()
        .Field("nodeName", query)
        .Execute()
        .Select(x => x.Id);
}
```

:::tip
We reference the External index by it's alias "ExternalIndex". Umbraco has a set of 'Constants' that refer to the indexes that can be more convenient to use `Constants.UmbracoIndexes`. So, in the example here we could have used `Constants.UmbracoIndexes.ExternalIndexName` instead of "ExternalIndex".
:::

The `Searcher` has a CreateQuery method, where you can choose to search content, media or members eg:
```csharp
Searcher.CreateQuery("content")
```

From here you can see how we can chain together the logic to perform the search. In the example we are searching all `content` using the `person` Document Type, where the `nodeName` is equal to the search term that was typed in the input bar.

```csharp
Searcher.CreateQuery("content").NodeTypeAlias("person").And().Field("nodeName", searchTerm)
```

Calling `.Execute()` at the end of the query logic triggers the search and returns a set of matching search results, which we can loop through to get the IDs of the resulting content items.
## Getting the content

> We want to retrieve the actual content from the IDs. For that we need the `UmbracoHelper`, so let's go ahead and inject that into our `SearchService`.
> ```csharp
> private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;
> private readonly UmbracoHelper _umbracoHelper;
> 
> public SearchService(IExamineManager examineManager, UmbracoHelper umbracoHelper)
> {
>     _examineManager = examineManager;
>     _umbracoHelper = umbracoHelper;
> }
> ```
> 
> The final method looks like this:
> ```csharp
> public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query)
> {
>     IEnumerable<string> ids = Array.Empty<string>();
>     if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(query) && _examineManager.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out IIndex? index))
>     {
>         ids = index.Searcher.CreateQuery("content").NodeTypeAlias("person").And().Field("nodeName", query).Execute()
>             .Select(x => x.Id);
>     }
> 
>     foreach (var id in ids)
>     {
>         yield return _umbracoHelper.Content(id);
>     }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: Hm.. maybe it would be friendly if we put the entire, finalized service implementation here. Something along these lines:

```suggestion
We want to retrieve the actual content from the IDs. For that we need the `UmbracoHelper`, which must be injected into our service as well. The final implementation of `SearchService` then looks like this.

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Examine;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common;
using Umbraco.Extensions;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Services;

public class SearchService : ISearchService
{
    private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;
    private readonly UmbracoHelper _umbracoHelper;
    
    public SearchService(IExamineManager examineManager, UmbracoHelper umbracoHelper)
    {
        _examineManager = examineManager;
        _umbracoHelper = umbracoHelper;
    }

    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query)
    {
        IEnumerable<string> ids = Array.Empty<string>();
        if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(query) && _examineManager.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out IIndex? index))
        {
            ids = index
                .Searcher
                .CreateQuery("content")
                .NodeTypeAlias("person")
                .And()
                .Field("nodeName", query)
                .Execute()
                .Select(x => x.Id);
        }
        
        foreach (var id in ids)
        {
            yield return _umbracoHelper.Content(id);
        }
    }
}
```
```

Author: Grea idea 👍

After getting the ids from our search, we then loop through the list, and return the content.

> # Creating a custom viewmodel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Creating a custom view model
```

```csharp
using System.Collections.Generic;
using Examine;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Services;

public class SearchServices : ISearchService
{
    private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;
    public SearchServices(IExamineManager examineManager)
    {
        _examineManager = examineManager;
    }
    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query) => throw new NotImplementedException();
}
```

### Creating the Search Query
With the `IExamineManager` injected in our `SearchService`, we can implement the `SearchContentNames` method. We do this using the `Searcher` for the Examine index 'ExternalIndex'.

```csharp
IEnumerable<string> ids = Array.Empty<string>();
if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(query) && _examineManager.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out IIndex? index))
{
    ids = index
        .Searcher
        .CreateQuery("content")
        .NodeTypeAlias("person")
        .And()
        .Field("nodeName", query)
        .Execute()
        .Select(x => x.Id);
}
```

:::tip

> We reference the External index by it's alias "ExternalIndex". Umbraco has a set of 'Constants' that refer to the indexes that can be more convenient to use `Constants.UmbracoIndexes`. So, in the example here we could have used `Constants.UmbracoIndexes.ExternalIndexName` instead of "ExternalIndex".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We reference the External index by its alias "ExternalIndex". Umbraco has a set of 'Constants' that refer to the indexes that can be more convenient to use `Constants.UmbracoIndexes`. So, in the example here we could have used `Constants.UmbracoIndexes.ExternalIndexName` instead of "ExternalIndex".
```

:::

The `Searcher` has a CreateQuery method, where you can choose to search content, media or members eg:
```csharp
Searcher.CreateQuery("content")
```

> From here you can see how we can chain together the logic to perform the search. In the example we are searching all `content` using the `person` Document Type, where the `nodeName` is equal to the search term that was typed in the input bar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From here you can see how we can chain together the logic to perform the search. In the example, we are searching all `content` using the `person` Document Type, where the `nodeName` is equal to the search term that was typed in the input bar.
```

```csharp
Searcher.CreateQuery("content").NodeTypeAlias("person").And().Field("nodeName", searchTerm)
```

Calling `.Execute()` at the end of the query logic triggers the search and returns a set of matching search results, which we can loop through to get the IDs of the resulting content items.
## Getting the content

> We want to retrieve the actual content from the IDs. For that we need the `UmbracoHelper`, which must be injected into our service as well. The final implementation of `SearchService` then looks like this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We want to retrieve the actual content from the IDs. For that, we need the `UmbracoHelper`, which must be injected into our service as well. The final implementation of `SearchService` then looks like this.
```

using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Examine;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;
using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common;
using Umbraco.Extensions;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Services;

public class SearchService : ISearchService
{
    private readonly IExamineManager _examineManager;
    private readonly UmbracoHelper _umbracoHelper;
    
    public SearchService(IExamineManager examineManager, UmbracoHelper umbracoHelper)
    {
        _examineManager = examineManager;
        _umbracoHelper = umbracoHelper;
    }

    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchContentNames(string query)
    {
        IEnumerable<string> ids = Array.Empty<string>();
        if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(query) && _examineManager.TryGetIndex("ExternalIndex", out IIndex? index))
        {
            ids = index
                .Searcher
                .CreateQuery("content")
                .NodeTypeAlias("person")
                .And()
                .Field("nodeName", query)
                .Execute()
                .Select(x => x.Id);
        }
        
        foreach (var id in ids)
        {
            yield return _umbracoHelper.Content(id);
        }
    }
}

> After getting the ids from our search, we then loop through the list, and return the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After getting the ids from our search, we then loop through the list and return the content.
```

# Creating a custom view model

> We will now need a custom view model, so that we can pass our search results to the view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will now need a custom view model so that we can pass our search results to the view.
```

> Our view model needs to inherit from `PublishedContentWrapped`, because our People view is expecting a model that is content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our view model needs to inherit from `PublishedContentWrapped` because our People view is expecting a model that is content.
```

We then wrap the content and add the search data, all in a convenient view model.
```csharp
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models.PublishedContent;

namespace MyStarterKitSite.Models;

public class SearchViewModel : PublishedContentWrapped
{
    public SearchViewModel(IPublishedContent content, IPublishedValueFallback publishedValueFallback)
        : base(content, publishedValueFallback)
    {
    }

    public IEnumerable<IPublishedContent> SearchResults { get; set; } = Enumerable.Empty<IPublishedContent>();
    public bool HasSearched { get; set; }
}
```

## Using the service and view model in the controller

> Now that we've created our service to handle the actual search logic, and our view model to pass the search results to the view, lets look at using them in the controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we've created our service to handle the actual search logic, and our view model to pass the search results to the view, let's look at using them in the controller.
```

        IUmbracoContextAccessor umbracoContextAccessor,
        IPublishedValueFallback publishedValueFallback,
        ISearchService searchService)
        : base(logger,
            compositeViewEngine,
            umbracoContextAccessor)
    {
        _publishedValueFallback = publishedValueFallback;
        _searchService = searchService;
    }

    public override IActionResult Index()
    {
        // Get the queryString from the request
        string queryString = HttpContext.Request.Query["query"];

        // Create the view model and pass it to the view
        SearchViewModel viewModel = new(CurrentPage!, _publishedValueFallback)
        {
            SearchResults = _searchService.SearchContentNames(queryString),
            HasSearched = !string.IsNullOrEmpty(queryString),
        };

        return CurrentTemplate(viewModel);
    }
}
```

## Updating the view to use the viewmodel
The final thing we need to do is update the view to use our new view model. We do that by changing the `@inherits` line in the view.
```csharp
@inherits Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Views.UmbracoViewPage<MyStarterKitSite.Models.SearchViewModel>
```

> Lets now use the view model to display the search results. We'll place them directly under the form we created earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's now use the view model to display the search results. We'll place them directly under the form we created earlier.
```
